Good news:
no terminal needed for this one!
We'll open a full VS Code right in
the browser,
create some files,
run a few commands,
and watch the kernel keep it all inside
the repo.
Here's the idea.
The editor doesn't run on your laptop.
It runs inside the repo's sandbox on
the server,
and your browser reaches it through an
SSH tunnel.
So the file tree,
the built-in terminal,
and anything you launch from it see
exactly what the repo sees,
and nothing else.
One command.
The CLI installs the editor server on
the machine once,
starts it inside the repo sandbox,
opens a tunnel,
and hands you a link.
No local VS Code,
no extensions to set up.
That URL is your editor.
Works from any OS — the only
requirement is a browser.
And there it is:
VS Code,
in a browser tab.
The file tree on the left shows the repo,
and only the repo.
Let's create a real file,
no terminal involved.
A new editor,
a couple of lines,
and save it as notes slash todo dot
md.
The folder appears on the left as it
lands in the repo.
The built-in terminal works too,
and there's our file.
Now let's try to look outside
the repo:
permission denied.
That's not a setting,
that's the kernel.
Same repo from the plain terminal:
the working directory is the repo,
the files are the repo's files.
Terminal and editor agree — it
is the same sandbox.
And the file we created in the
browser editor?
Right here.
Files made in VS Code are real
repo files,
instantly.
Created in the browser,
readable from the terminal.
One repo,
two doors.
Now try to leave.
Listing the root of the server:
permission denied.
The kernel scopes the editor,
its terminal,
and every child process to this repo.
Denied by the kernel,
not by configuration.
Other users' homes?
Also denied.
Whatever runs inside this sandbox —
editors,
terminals,
build tools — ends at the
repo's walls.
The sandbox has no exceptions.
That is the point.
Browser,
editor,
terminal:
same sandbox,
same rules.
Next up is the feature everything
here builds on,
forking.
You're going to like this one.